Pr/3 (#58)
UBICenter/childallowance: jb/research.md

2. the poverty gap index, a measure of the intensity of poverty; and
3. the squared poverty gap, a measure of the severity of poverty that more heavily weights relatively poor households.

Against these three measures, there is clear evidence from the Ghana LEAP, Kenya HSNP, Malawi SCTP and Zambia CGP that cash transfers are effective tools in reducing the incidence, intensity and severity of poverty.
The Uganda SAGE found similar, though less statistically significant impacts by defining a poverty line with respect to consumption expenditure.

> That said, the Lesotho CGP and Zimbabwe HSCT evaluations found no significant effects on any measure of poverty, though the studies' authors note thatthis may relate to the irregularity of payments through the Lesotho CGP and a large reduction in net gifts and remittances in the Zimbabwe HSCT. 

Reviewer: thatthis typo

The findings of these studies are summarized in Table 2, which shows the percentage point (pp) reduction in measures of poverty driven by each of the programs alongside the baseline treatment mean.
In its totality, the evidence indicates that cash transfers do reduce household poverty.

Table 2: Evidence from sub-Saharan Africa: Cash transfers reduce poverty

|Program       |Headcount |Poverty gap |Squared poverty gap |
|:------------:|:---------:|:----------:|:------------------:|
|Ghana LEAP    |-2.1\*\* [93]   |-2.6\*\* [51]     |             |
|Kenya HSNP    |-3.9 [88]    |-7.5\*\* [41]     |-6.9\*\* [23]             |
|Lesotho CGP   |3.8 [68]          |3.2 [47]          |                   |
|Malawi SCTP   |-14.9\*\*\* [82]  |-10.9\*\*\* [60]  |-12.2\*\*\* [41]          |
|Uganda SAGE   |-8.3\* [44]     |-2.2\* [10]       |-0.83\* [3]             |
|Zambia CGP    |-4.1\*\* [94]    |-8.4\*\* [60]    |-7.6\*\*  [43]           |
|Zimbabwe HSCT |-0.5 [92]           |-0.0 [55]           |-0.2 [37]                   |

> *To do: perhaps add in a paragraph on why poverty wouldn't necessarily fall (remittances etc.)*

Reviewer: todo

Looking specifically at child outcomes, there is mixed evidence on whether transfers reduced the number of meals that children are forced to skip as a result of economic pressures.
The Uganda GiveDirectly program found a reduction in meals skipped by children of -1.93\*\*\* [4.22] but the Lesotho CGP found no effect on the same metric.
Evidence from the Uganda WFP program indicates that cash transfers may outperform food transfers of similar value.

### Health
While food security and nutrition are improved markedly by cash transfers, there is weaker evidence of an impact on child health outcomes. 
Across child anthropomorphic outcomes, healthcare utilization, morbidity and mental health outcomes, there is only limited evidence that child health improves as a result of a cash transfer. 

The GiveDirectly Rwanda program found small positive impacts of transfers on two anthropomorphic measures, Height-for-age and Weight-for-age (0.091 standard deviations\*\* [0.15] and 0.067 standard deviations\*\* [0.15], respectively), as did the South African CSG.

> However, most other evaluations, including the Ghana LEAP and Zambia CGP, found null effects. This is perhaps particularly surprising as the Ghana LEAP also provided free enrolment in a national health insurance program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, most other evaluations, including the Ghana LEAP and Zambia CGP, found null effects, despite Ghana LEAP's provision of free enrollment in a national health insurance program.
```

The Lesotho CGP evaluation even found a significant reduction in Weight-for-age amongst program recipients, though there was no corresponding increase in the proportion of children suffering from malnutrition.
These small and inconsistent effects may result from the long delays between nutrition and its anthropomorphic benefits.
There is also some evidence that the gender of the recipient affects the impact of cash transfers on health anthropomorphic outcomes.
The South African Old Age Pension only had significant impacts on Weight-for-height for girls if their grandmother (and not grandfather) was eligible for the pension.

> Despite improving access to healthcare being a central aim of many cash transfers, there is little evidence that household expenditure on health-related services increases with receipt of a cash transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite many cash transfers aiming to improve access to healthcare, there is little evidence that they increase household expenditure on health-related services.
```

The Malawi SCTP reports significantly higher utilization of healthcare services (and particularly curative services) on receipt of the transfer.

> However, the World Bank meta-analysis finds no significant divergence in mean expenditure on health services and both the Tanzania TASAF and Zimbabwe HSCT actually report decreased expenditure. 

Reviewer: I see HSCT is a UCT; is TASAF conditioned on healthcare activities?

Should this be surprising if cash transfers improve nutrition and other means of improving general health, requiring less healthcare spending?

In general it seems like, if the message is uncertain results from UCTs, leading with the World Bank meta-analysis and then mentioning that SCTP raises while TASAF and HSCT reduce, could be less bouncy than the current flow going into the NCTTP sentences.

That said, there is some evidence from the Burkino Faso NCTTP that conditioning transfers on quarterly visits to the local health clinic for child growth monitoring for children under 6 (as well as 90% attendance for children 7-15) leads to greater healthcare service usage.
It found no effect for the unconditional transfer treatment arm but the conditional transfer increased the number of routine preventative health clinic visits by 0.43/*/* [1.03]

There is similarly weak evidence of improvement across a range medium-term health outcomes.

> The Kenya UBI found between 3 and 6 pp\*\* [44] reductions in the probability of a houshold member being sick (depending on time-scale), and the Malawi SCTP found a 6 pp reduction\*\* [30] in the incidence of illness in the past two weeks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kenya UBI found between 3 and 6 pp\*\* [44] reductions in the probability of a household member being sick (depending on time-scale), and the Malawi SCTP found a 6 pp reduction\*\* [30] in the incidence of illness in the past two weeks.
```

However, the majority of studies, including the Ghana LEAP and Uganda SAGE, found no similar effects.
The Zimbabwe CCTP and Ghana LEAP also found no evidence of increased vaccination coverage.
Looking specifically at child outcomes, there is tentative evidence from the Rwanda GD that large cash transfers are associated with a decline in child mortality of -1** pp [3.3] and this tentatively positive evidence characterises what we know about the impact of cash transfers on a broad range of health-related outcomes. 
 
*baseline = ppchange/(1-%change) = 1/(1-0.7) =3.3*

There is interesting, though inconclusive, evidence of mental health impacts.
Kenya GiveDirectly found a positive\*\*\* impact on a village-level psychological well-being index and the Kenya UBI found a significant decrease\*\*\* in depression on the CES scale.
By contrast, the Zimbabwe HSCT found a weakly significant increase in depression\* but a highly significant improvement in subjective well-being\*\*\*, while the Malawi SCTP, Tanzania TASAF and Zambia MCTG found null effects. 

### Education

There is some evidence that unconditional cash transfers improve indicators of educational attainment.  

> For example, the Malawi SCTP found that receipt of the transfer was associated with a 9 pp\*\*\* [69%] increase in enrollment and the Zambia MCTG a 9 pp\*\* [70%] increase in enrollment amongst young males (7-14) and a 19 pp\*\* [65%] older females (15-17). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the Malawi SCTP found that receipt of the transfer was associated with a 9 pp\*\*\* [69%] increase in enrollment and the Zambia MCTG a 9 pp\*\* [70%] increase in enrollment among young males (7-14) and a 19 pp\*\* [65%] among older females (15-17). 
```

    3. Hazardous economic activities carried out in the year prior to the interview are considered to be
    child labour for all children under the age of 18. 

    It differs marginally from the standard UNICEF indicator used by the Lesotho CGP.
    UNICEF’s indicator similarly classes hazardous economic activities but the thresholds for economic and unpaid labour are as follows:
     Age 5 to 11 years: At least 1 hour of economic work or 21 hours of unpaid household services per week.
     Age 12 to 14 years: At least 14 hours of economic work or 21 hours of unpaid household services per week.
     Age 15 to 17 years: At least 43 hours of economic work per week.

### Empowerment

In recent years there has been substantial interest in whether cash transfers, particularly if they are given to women, improve metrics of women's empowerment.
As yet, there is little evidence that cash transfers improve women's empowerment.

*baseline = ppchange/(1-%change) = 9/(1-0.48) baseline = ppchange/(1-%change) = 8/(1-0.34)*

The majority of studies reported the incidence of marriage and pregnancy amongst female-identifying recipients. 

> For example, The UCT arm of the Malawi ZCTP reported large reductions in the likelihood of marriage and pregnancy, 9 pp\*\*\* [17.3] and 8 pp\*\*\* [12.1] respectively while there were null effects in the CCT arm, and the Kenya CT-OVC reported a 4.9 pp** [15] reduction in the incidence of pregnancy among cash transfer recipients and a null result for marriage. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the UCT arm of the Malawi ZCTP reported large reductions in the likelihood of marriage and pregnancy, 9 pp\*\*\* [17.3] and 8 pp\*\*\* [12.1] respectively while there were null effects in the CCT arm, and the Kenya CT-OVC reported a 4.9 pp** [15.0] reduction in the incidence of pregnancy among cash transfer recipients and a null result for marriage. 
```
